Azure Logs documentation update (#4300)
elastic/integrations: packages/azure/_dev/build/docs/README.md

* Create a resource group, or select an existing one.
* Create an event hubs namespace.
* Create an event hub.

For a detailed step-by-step guide, please follow the instructions at [Quickstart: Create an event hub using Azure portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-create).

Take note of the event hub **Name**, which you will use later when specifying an **eventhub** in the integration settings.

#### Event hub namespace vs event hub

You should use the event hub name (not the event hub namespace name) as a value for the  **eventhub** option in the integration settings.

If you are new to Event Hub, think of the event hub namespace as the cluster and the event hub as the topic. You will typically have one cluster and multiple topics.

If you are familiar with Kafka, here's a conceptual mapping between the two:

| Kafka Concept  | Event Hub Concept |
|----------------|-------------------|
| Cluster        | Namespace         |
| Topic          | An event hub      |
| Partition      | Partition         |
| Consumer Group | Consumer Group    |
| Offset         | Offset            |

#### How many event hubs?

> Elastic recommends creating one event hub for each Azure service you collect data from. For example, if you plan to collect Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) logs and Activity logs, create two event hubs: one for Azure AD and one for Activity logs.

Author: Some integrations are designed to filter incoming logs and drop those that are not on the supported log categories list.

For example, both sign-in and audit logs have a processor in their ingest pipelines that drop logs that don't belong to the supported log categories. So you can enable all the Azure AD logs, and each one will ingest only the right log messages. The price is inefficiencies due to all data streams receiving the same messages: dropping a message is not completely free.

Other integrations, like the generic Event Hub integration, can ingest any log category but it indexes only the common fields. So enabling a generic Event Hub integration alongside others is not recommended and can lead to indexing the same log multiple times, in different data streams, and with different field mapping.

@lucabelluccini, do you think we need to elaborate a little instead of just stating "Elastic recommends creating one event hub"?

> Elastic recommends creating one event hub for each Azure service you collect data from. For example, if you plan to collect Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) logs and Activity logs, create two event hubs: one for Azure AD and one for Activity logs.

Reviewer: > For example, both sign-in and audit logs have a processor in their ingest pipelines that drop logs that don't belong to the supported log categories.

If the drop is in the ingest pipeline on Elasticsearch side, leaving all the types of logs in the Event Log settings is a waste of network and ingest pipeline resources on the ingest nodes, as we're basically multiplying N times (N = the type of logs/data streams left enabled)

E.g. I collect only the AD logs and I route them to 1 event hub. If I configure the Azure Logs integration as per defaults (all options enabled) as below, the amount of data transferred to ES (for then being thrown away except for the AD) is huge...

<img width="797" alt="image" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/87379/193093356-74af3a02-1ac8-47bc-8fbd-6efc0ab41ff8.png">

> Elastic recommends creating one event hub for each Azure service you collect data from. For example, if you plan to collect Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) logs and Activity logs, create two event hubs: one for Azure AD and one for Activity logs.

Author: Yep. That's why I want to update this document so badly.

I also want to open a different PR to change the default value from enabled to disabled (the new data streams added to Azure AD logs are disabled by default). 

The Azure module for Filebeat also [recommends](https://www.elastic.co/guide/en/beats/filebeat/current/filebeat-module-azure.html) one even hub per log type:
>  It is recommended to use a separate eventhub for each log type as the field mappings of each log type are different.

The reason is different but still valid.

> Elastic recommends creating one event hub for each Azure service you collect data from. For example, if you plan to collect Azure Active Directory (Azure AD) logs and Activity logs, create two event hubs: one for Azure AD and one for Activity logs.

Author: We agreed to make the following changes:

- Add a disclaimer at the top of the README.md document suggesting installing the "individual" integrations.
- We "strongly recommend"

```text
  ┌────────────────┐   ┌──────────────┐   ┌────────────────┐                    
  │    Azure AD    │   │  Diagnostic  │   │     adlogs     │                    
  │  <<service>>   │──▶│   settings   │──▶│ <<event hub>>  │──┐                 
  └────────────────┘   └──────────────┘   └────────────────┘  │   ┌────────────┐
                                                              │   │  Elastic   │
                                                              ├──▶│   Agent    │
  ┌────────────────┐   ┌──────────────┐   ┌────────────────┐  │   └────────────┘
  │ Azure Monitor  │   │  Diagnostic  │   │  activitylogs  │  │                 
  │  <<service>>   ├──▶│   settings   │──▶│ <<event hub>>  │──┘                 
  └────────────────┘   └──────────────┘   └────────────────┘                                    
```

It is not recommended to use the same event hub for multiple integrations.

> For high-volume deployments, we recommend one event hub for each data stream.

Author: The goal was to introduce the idea that high-vol data streams may require an additional work.

A good trade-off for most users is one event hub for all Azure AD logs (made of four data streams now), but if you have a substantial Active Directory deployment, you may consider moving to one event hub for each data stream.

#### Consumer Group

Like all other clients, Elastic Agent should specify a consumer group to access the event hub.

> A Consumer Group is a view (state, position, or offset) of an entire event hub. Consumer groups enable multiple agents to each have a separate view of the event stream, and to read the logs independently at their own pace and with their own offsets.

Author: We need to go one level deeper to understand what's going on.

The current integration structure forces the same event hub and consumer group to be shared across all enabled data streams.

Every enabled data stream spawns an azureeventhub input that connects to the same event hub and uses the same consumer group name:

```text
                                                     
                   ┌────────────────┐                
                   │     adlogs     │                
                   │ <<event hub>>  │                
                   └────────────────┘                
                            │                        
                            │                        
                            │                        
             ┌──────────────┼──────────────┐         
         $Default       $Default       $Default      
             │              │              │         
  ┌──────────┼──────────────┼──────────────┼────────┐
  │          ▼              ▼              ▼        │
  │   ┌────────────┐ ┌────────────┐ ┌────────────┐  │
  │   │   signin   │ │   audit    │ │  activity  │  │
  │   │ <<input>>  │ │ <<input>>  │ │ <<input>>  │  │
  │   └────────────┘ └────────────┘ └────────────┘  │
  │          │              │              │        │
  └─Filebeat─┼──────────────┼──────────────┼────────┘
             │              │              │         
             │              │              │         
             │     consumer group info     │         
             │    (state, position, or     │         
             │           offset)           │         
             │              │              │         
             │              │              │         
  ┌──────────┼──────────────┼──────────────┼────────┐
  │          ▼              ▼              ▼        │
  │   ┌────────────┐  ┌──────────┐   ┌──────────┐   │
  │   │   signin   │  │  audit   │   │  audit   │   │
  │   │  <<blob>>  │  │ <<blob>> │   │ <<blob>> │   │
  │   └────────────┘  └──────────┘   └──────────┘   │
  │                                                 │
  └─storage account container───────────────────────┘
```

But, since each input stores the consumer group info (state, position, or offset) on a different blob, it's like each uses a dedicated consumer group. Even if they use the same consume group name.

That's why each data stream connected to the same data stream receives a copy of each message.

> A Consumer Group is a view (state, position, or offset) of an entire event hub. Consumer groups enable multiple agents to each have a separate view of the event stream, and to read the logs independently at their own pace and with their own offsets.

Author: If you assign the same agent policy to multiple Elastic Agents, they end up using the same blob and meet the goal of sharing the load:

```text
               ┌────────────────┐                  
               │     adlogs     │                  
               │ <<event hub>>  │                  
               └────────────────┘                  
                        │                          
                        │                          
                        │                          
           ┌────────────┴───────────┐              
       $Default                 $Default           
           │                        │              
┌──────────┼──────────┐  ┌──────────┼──────────┐   
│          ▼          │  │          ▼          │   
│   ┌────────────┐    │  │   ┌────────────┐    │   
│   │   signin   │    │  │   │   signin   │    │   
│   │ <<input>>  │    │  │   │ <<input>>  │    │   
│   └────────────┘    │  │   └────────────┘    │   
│          │          │  │          │          │   
└─Filebeat─┼──────────┘  └─Filebeat─┼──────────┘   
           │                        │              
           │                        │              
           │                        │              
           │ consumer group info    │              
           │(state, position, or    │              
           │       offset)          │              
           │                        │              
┌──────────┼────────────────────────┼─────────────┐
│          │                        │             │
│          │     ┌────────────┐     │             │
│          │     │   signin   │     │             │
│          └────▶│  <<blob>>  │◀────┘             │
│                └────────────┘                   │
│                                                 │
└─storage account container───────────────────────┘
```

In this example, both Filebeat instances will use the same blob. The blob name is identified by name using the following pattern: `filebeat-signinlogs-{{eventhub}}`.

> A Consumer Group is a view (state, position, or offset) of an entire event hub. Consumer groups enable multiple agents to each have a separate view of the event stream, and to read the logs independently at their own pace and with their own offsets.

Author: @lucabelluccini, what do you think is the best way to describe the role of the consumer group to a user who wants to set up an integration?

> A Consumer Group is a view (state, position, or offset) of an entire event hub. Consumer groups enable multiple agents to each have a separate view of the event stream, and to read the logs independently at their own pace and with their own offsets.

Author: We agreed to make the following changes:

- add a paragraph that describes that consumer groups allow Agent to collaborate and scale the throughput
- underline that having an event hub per log type is a good thing

> In most cases, you can use the default value of `$Default`.

Author: Yep. I am not an expert here, but I think having a consumer group named after the log type it serves would help. I will update the doc accordingly.

#### Connection string

The Elastic Agent requries a connection string to access the event hub and fetch the exported logs. The connection string contains details about the event hub used and the credentials required to access it.

To get the connection string for your event hub namespace:

1. Visit the **Event Hubs namespace** you created in a previous step.
1. Select **Settings** > **Shared access policies**.

Create a new Shared Access Policy (SAS):

1. Select **Add** to open the creation panel.
1. Add a **Policy name** (for example, "ElasticAgent").
1. Select the **Listen** claim.
1. Select **Create**.

When the SAS Policy is ready, select it to display the information panel.

Take note of the **Connection string–primary key**, which you will use later when specifying a **connection_string** in the integration settings.

### Create a Diagnostic settings

> The Diagnostic settings export the logs from Azure services to a destination. The Azure Logs integration uses the Event Hub service as the destination for the logs.

Author: I like it!

```

Examples of source services:

* Active Directory
* Azure Monitor
* Spring Cloud

The Diagnostic settings support several destination types. The Elastic Agent requires a Diagnostic setting configured with Event Hub as the destination.

### Event Hub

[Azure Event Hubs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-about) is a data streaming platform and event ingestion service. It can receive and temporary store millions of events.

Elastic Agent with the Azure Logs integration will consume logs from the Event Hubs service.

```text
  ┌────────────────┐      ┌────────────┐
  │     adlogs     │      │  Elastic   │
  │ <<event hub>>  │─────▶│   Agent    │
  └────────────────┘      └────────────┘
```

To learn more about Event Hubs, refer to [Features and terminology in Azure Event Hubs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-features).

### Storage account container

The [Storage account](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/storage/common/storage-account-overview) is a versatile Azure service that allows you to store data in various storage types, including blobs, file shares, queues, tables, and disks.

> The Azure Logs integration uses a Storage account container to store and share information about the Consumer Group (state, position, or offset). Sharing such information allows the Elastic Agents assigned to the same agent policy to work together on the logs processing to increase ingestion throughput if required.

Reviewer 2: as a non-native english speaker I miss the detail of having "Agents" at plural: I know the storage account is used for horizontal scaling so I got it anyway, maybe having something like "Sharing such information allows *multiple* Elastic Agents assigned to the same agent policy to work together on the logs processing to increase ingestion throughput if required" make it more evident

Author: Oh, this is a good point! I had a vague feeling that "Agents" was a sort of a smell, and you put it in focus. 

Updating it with your version!

 ┌────────────────┐ │  ┌──────────────┐   ┌─────────────────────┐  │  ┌────────────┐
 │    Azure AD    │ │  │  Diagnostic  │   │   audit (adlogs)    │  │  │  Elastic   │
 │  <<service>>   │─┼─▶│   settings   │──▶│    <<event hub>>    │──┼─▶│   Agent    │
 └────────────────┘ │  └──────────────┘   └─────────────────────┘  │  └────────────┘
                    │                                              │                
                    │  ┌──────────────┐   ┌─────────────────────┐  │                
                    │  │  Diagnostic  │   │provisioning (adlogs)│  │                
                    └─▶│   settings   │──▶│    <<event hub>>    │──┘                
                       └──────────────┘   └─────────────────────┘                   
```

#### Consumer Group

Like all other event hub clients, Elastic Agent needs a consumer group name to access the event hub.

A Consumer Group is a view (state, position, or offset) of an entire event hub. Consumer groups enable multiple agents to each have a separate view of the event stream, and to read the logs independently at their own pace and with their own offsets.

> Consumer groups allow the Elastic Agents assigned to the same agent policy to work together on the logs processing to increase ingestion throughput if required.

Reviewer 2: same as above :)

Reviewer 2: I find also that mentioning the concept of “horizontal scaling" might increase clarity. but it could be a subjective opinion

Author: Yeah, I agree, and I'm also stealing the "horizontal scaling" thing 😇

# Azure Logs Integration

## Overview

The Azure Logs integration retrieves Activity, Active Directory (Sign-in, Audit, Identity Protection, Provisioning), Platform, and Spring Cloud data from [Azure](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/?product=popular).

> Use the Azure Logs integration to collect logs from Azure service. Then visualize that data in Kibana, create alerts to notify you if something goes wrong, and reference data when troubleshooting an issue.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use the Azure Logs integration to collect logs from Azure service. You can then visualize that data in Kibana, create alerts to notify you if something goes wrong, and reference data when troubleshooting an issue.
```

For example, if you wanted to detect possible brute force sign-in attacks, you
could install the Azure Logs integration to send Azure sign-in logs to Elastic.
Then, set up a new rule in the Elastic Observability Logs app to alert you when the number of failed sign-in attempts exceeds a certain threshold.
Or, perhaps you want to better plan your Azure capacity.
Send Azure Activity logs to Elastic to track and visualize when your virtual machines
fail to start due to an exceed quota limit.

## Data streams

The Azure Logs integration collects logs.

**Logs** help you keep a record of events that happen on your Azure account.
Log data streams collected by the Azure Logs integration include Activity, Platform, Active Directory (Sign-in, Audit, Identity Protection, Provisioning), and Spring Cloud logs.

> See more details in the [Logs reference](#logs-reference).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Check the [Logs reference](#logs-reference) for more details.
```
Replace visual clues with more accessible content. [Accessibility Tips and Tricks.](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1IGuMf16-cwxx8BX1Z9PWsFWsTPxicwTkX_r7UOhjd4E/edit)

## Requirements

You need Elasticsearch for storing and searching your data and Kibana for visualizing and managing it.
You can use our hosted Elasticsearch Service on Elastic Cloud, which is recommended, or self-manage the Elastic Stack on your own hardware.

Before using the Azure integration you will need:

* One or more **Diagnostic setting** to export logs from Azure services to Event Hubs.
* One or more **Event Hub** to store in-flight logs exported by Azure services and make them available to Elastic Agent.

> * One **Storage Account Container** to store information about logs consumed by the Elastic Agent

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* One **Storage Account Container** to store information about logs consumed by the Elastic Agent.
```

> ### Diagnostic setting

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Diagnostic settings
```

> Azure Diagnostic settings allow users to export metrics and logs from a **source** service or resource to one **destination** for analysis and long term storage.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Azure Diagnostic settings allow you to export metrics and logs from a **source** service, or resource, to one **destination** for analysis and long-term storage.
```

```text
   ┌──────────────────┐      ┌──────────────┐     ┌─────────────────┐
   │ Active Directory │      │  Diagnostic  │     │    Event Hub    │
   │    <<source>>    │─────▶│   settings   │────▶│ <<destination>> │
   └──────────────────┘      └──────────────┘     └─────────────────┘
```

Examples of source services:

* Active Directory
* Azure Monitor
* Spring Cloud

The Azure Logs integration uses Event Hub as destination.

### Event Hub

> [Azure Event Hubs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-about) is a data streaming platform and event ingestion service. I can receive and temporary store millions of events.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
[Azure Event Hubs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-about) is a data streaming platform and event ingestion service. It can receive and temporary store millions of events.
```

The Azure Logs integration uses the Event Hubs service to receive and store logs exported by a Diagnostic settings and make them available to Elastic Agent.

> To learn more about Event Hubs, you can read the in-depth document [Features and terminology in Azure Event Hubs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-features).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
To learn more about Event Hubs, refer to [Features and terminology in Azure Event Hubs](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-features).
```

### Storage account container

> The Storage account is a versatile Azure service that allows users to store data in various storage types, including blobs, file shares, queues, tables, and disks.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Storage account is a versatile Azure service that allows you to store data in various storage types, including blobs, file shares, queues, tables, and disks.
```

```text
  ┌────────────────┐                     ┌────────────┐
  │ Azure AD logs  │        logs         │  Elastic   │
  │ <<event hub>>  │────────────────────▶│   Agent    │
  └────────────────┘                     └────────────┘
                                                │      
                       consumer group info      │      
  ┌────────────────┐   (state, position, or     │      
  │     azlogs     │         offset)            │      
  │ <<container>>  │◀───────────────────────────┘      
  └────────────────┘                                                   
```

## Setup

Before adding the integration, you must complete the following tasks as logs are read from Azure Event Hubs.

### Create an Event Hub

The Event Hub receives the logs exported from the Azure service you're interested in and makes them available to the Elastic Agent to pick up.

Here's the high-level overview of the required steps:

* Create a resource group, or use an existing one.
* Create an Event Hubs namespace.
* Create an event hub.

> For a detailed step-by-step guide, please follow the instructions at [Quickstart: Create an event hub using Azure portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-create).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a detailed step-by-step guide, check the quickstart [Create an event hub using Azure portal](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/event-hubs/event-hubs-create).
```

  └────────────────┘   └──────────────┘   └────────────────┘  │   ┌────────────┐
                                                              │   │  Elastic   │
                                                              ├──▶│   Agent    │
  ┌────────────────┐   ┌──────────────┐   ┌────────────────┐  │   └────────────┘
  │ Azure Monitor  │   │  Diagnostic  │   │ Activity logs  │  │                 
  │  <<service>>   ├──▶│   settings   │──▶│ <<event hub>>  │──┘                 
  └────────────────┘   └──────────────┘   └────────────────┘                    
```

For high-volume deployments, we recommend one event hub for each data stream.

#### Consumer Group

A Consumer Group is a view (state, position, or offset) of an entire event hub. Consumer groups enable multiple consuming applications to each have a separate view of the event stream, and to read the stream independently at their own pace and with their own offsets.

The Azure Logs integration uses a consumer group to access Event Hubs and track which logs have already been fetched and are new.

In most cases, you can use the default value of `$Default`.

#### Connection String

> The Elastic Agent requries a Connection String to access the Event Hub and fetch the exported logs. It contains details about the Event Hub used and the credentials required to access it.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Elastic Agent requires a Connection String to access the Event Hub and fetch the exported logs. It contains details about the Event Hub used and the credentials required to access it.
```

1. Visit the **Event Hubs namespace** you created in a previous step.
1. Select **Settings** > **Shared access policies**.

Create a new Shared Access Policy (SAS):

1. Select **Add** to open the creation panel.
1. Add a **Policy name** (for example, "ElasticAgent").
1. Select the **Listen** claim.
1. Select **Create**.

When the SAS Policy is ready, select it to display the information panel.

Take note of the **Connection string–primary key**, which you will use later when specifying a **connection_string** in the integration settings.

### Create a Diagnostic settings

The Diagnostic settings export the logs from Azure services to a destination. The Azure Logs integration uses an event hub as the destination for the logs.

1. Locate the Diagnostic settings for the service (for example, Azure Active Directory).

> 1. Select Diagnostic settings in the **Monitoring** section of the service. Please note that different services may place the diagnostic settings in different positions.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. Select Diagnostic settings in the **Monitoring** section of the service. Note that different services may place the diagnostic settings in different positions.
```

1. Select **Add diagnostic setting**.

In the diagnostic settings page you have to select the **log categories** you want to export and select the **destination**.

#### Select log categories

Each Azure services exports a well-defined list of log categories. Check which log categories are supported by the integration.

#### Select the destination

Select the subscription and the event hub namespace you previously created. Select the event hub dedicated to this integration.

```text
  ┌────────────────┐   ┌──────────────┐   ┌────────────────┐      ┌────────────┐
  │ Azure Monitor  │   │  Diagnostic  │   │ Activity logs  │      │  Elastic   │
  │  <<service>>   ├──▶│   settings   │──▶│ <<event hub>>  │─────▶│   Agent    │
  └────────────────┘   └──────────────┘   └────────────────┘      └────────────┘
```

### Create a Storage account container

> The Storage account container stores the consumer group info (state, position, or offset). This allow the Elastic Agent to resume from the last processed logs after a restart, or share the load between multiple Elastic Agents.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Storage account container stores the consumer group info (state, position, or offset). This allows the Elastic Agent to resume from the last processed logs after a restart, or share the load between multiple Elastic Agents.
```

To create the Storage accounts:

1. Sign in to the [Azure Portal](https://portal.azure.com/).
1. Search for and select **Storage accounts**.
1. Under **Project details**, select a subscription and a resource group.
1. Under **Instance details**, enter a **Storage account name**.
1. Select **Create**.

Take note of the **Storage account name**, which you will use later when specifying the **storage_account** in the integration settings.

> When the new Storage account is ready, we can look for the access keys:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
When the new Storage account is ready, you can look for the access keys:
```
